# chatbot-interface
Create a functional chatbot, allowing users to input queries and receive responses from an LLM, from an interface created by Gradio

## Step 1: install dependencies
* Follow steps on `install_virtualEnv.sh` file to install, from a terminal, the required dependencies (virtual environment setup, Gradio, IBM Watsonx AI, and LangChain).

## Create Web Interface with Gradio

### Gradio overview
* You can use Gradio to create a web interface that seamlessly bridges the gap between machine learning models and end-user interactions. 
* Gradio enables developers to effortlessly transform their algorithms into accessible, interactive applications. 
* With Gradio, you can quickly design web interfaces where users can input data in various format including text, images, or audio, and instantly view the output generated by your model

### Create a demo sum calculator
* You will create an application that can calculate the sum of your input numbers.
* This is created in the `gradio_demo.py` file
* Note that the gr.Number() element from Gradio creates a numeric field for the user to enter numbers as input or can display the numeric output.

### Launch the demo application
* use the following command to run the Python script.
`python3.11 gradio_demo.py`

* After this code runs successfully, you will see a message in the terminal window with the local URL displayed.You'll also see a message that instructs you that if you want to create a public link, to set `share=True` in `Launch()`.

## Create a Gradio application that can combine two input sentences together

* The code of the Gradio application is in `combine_input.py` file.

## Gradio Interface Inputs and Outputs

### Common Inputs
* Gradio has a large number of input types. The more commonly encountered ones are listed below:
- `Checkbox`: A checkbox that can be set to True or False.

- `CheckboxGroup`: An input type that allows users to select multiple values from a predefined checkbox list.

- `Dropdown`: An input type that provides a dropdown list where, by default, one value can be selected. If multiselect is set to True, then one or more values can be selected.

- `File`: An input type that allows a user to upload a file.

- `Image`: An input type that allows the user to select or upload an image.

- `Radio`: An input type that forces the user to choose one value.

- `Slider`: An input type that provides a slider where a value must be selected between a minimum and a maximum range. The `value` parameter defines the default value, and `step` provides the increment value. Setting the minimum, maximum, and `step` values to integers will select integer values.

- `Textbox`: An expandible text box that allows the user to type in text.

### Common Outpus
* Many of Gradio's input types can also function as outputs.
* The available output types depend on the output of the function provided to Interface. 
* In practice, for most LLM applications, the output type is typically text.
* As such, a suitable choice is either gr.Textbox(), or just "text", which offers an expandable text box.

* Another frequently encountered output type is Label. Label is typically used for classification tasks, and can output the predicted probabilities of each class. 

* If you have a large number of classes, you can use the num_top_classes parameter to control the number of classes that are outputted. 
* For instance, if you have 1000 classes, setting Label(num_top_classes=3) would output just the three classes with the highest predicted probabilities instead of the predicted probabilities for all classes.

### An Example of Common Input Types
* The example is in the file called `common_input_types.py`

* run the script by pasting the following into the terminal window and clicking Enter:
`python3.11 common_input_types.py`

* Finally, launch the app from the localhost

* In addition to illustrating the different types of inputs, the above also produces a table with input examples. These examples are generated by configuring the examples parameter in Interface as a list of lists, where each inner list represents one example, or a single row in the examples table.

## IBM watsonx.ai LLM quickstart

### watsonx.ai introduction

* Watsonx.ai is IBM's commercial generative AI and scientific data platform based on cloud technology that includes a studio, data store, and governance toolkit designed to support multiple LLMs. 

* This platform is designed to support a diverse array of AI development tasks, providing developers with access to IBM's Granite models, Meta's Llama models, Mistral AI's Mixtral model, and various others.

### Create a Q&A bot
* This tutorial will walk you through the process of creating a Q&A chatbot using either the Llama or the Mixtral model. 
* You'll also learn how to select the model as you work your way through the tutorial. 
* These powerful foundation models are seamlessly integrated into IBM's watsonx.ai platform, simplifying your development journey. 
* The provided API eliminates the need for generating complex API tokens, streamlining your application creation process. The Llama and Mixtral models both support the following use cases:

```bash
Questions & Answers (Q&A)

Summarization

Classification

Generation

Extraction

Retrieval-augmented generation

Code generation
```
Moreover, the Granite 3.3 8B model supports these additional use cases:

- `Reasoning & planning`

- `Fill-in-the-middle``

* Create the application from the `simple_llm.py` file.

* After the code successfully runs, you can input the following query in the terminal. The app then generates a response.

* Enter the query, for example: `How to be a good data scientist?`.

* In the code, you used `"skills-network"` as `project_id` to gain immediate, free access to the API without the need for initial registration.

* Important! This access method is exclusive to this cloud IDE environment. 

* `Obtaining watson_API And Project_id`
- As you may notice you need to have watsonx_APIand project_idas authentication when using Watson API. Users may obtain this key by first signing up for IBM Cloud at IBM account or watsonx account and then generating an API key at https://cloud.ibm.com/iam/apikeys.

## Gradio and the LLM
### Integrate the application into Gradio
* Having successfully created a Q&A bot with your script, you might notice that responses are only displayed in the terminal. You might wonder if it's possible to integrate this application with Gradio so that you can provide a web interface for inputting questions and receiving responses.

* The script `llm_chat.py` guide you through this integration process. It includes the following three components:

- Initializing the model

- Defining the function that generates responses from the LLM

- Constructing the Gradio interface and enabling interaction with the LLM
    - The `gr.Textbox` element is being used to create text field and hold users' input query and LLM's output

* After the code runs successfully, you will see message that tells you which local URL the application is using. You'll also see a message that instructs you that if you want to create a public link, to set share=True in Launch().

* The chatbot you successfully created is displayed.
* Now, you can ask yout chatbot a question.

## Construct the QA bot

* Create the `qabot.py` file.


### initialize the LLM
* Inside the same file, now initialize the LLM by creating an instance of WatsonxLLM, a class in langchain_ibm. WatsonxLLM can use several underlying foundational models. In this particular example, you will use Mixtral 8x7B, although you could have used other models, such as Llama 3.3 70B. (check `get_llm` function)

### Define the PDF document loader
* define the PDF document loader. To load PDF documents, you will use the PyPDFLoader class from the langchain_community library. The syntax is quite straightforward. First, you create the PDF loader as an instance of PyPDFLoader. Then, you load the document and return the loaded document.

### Define the text splitter
* The PDF document loader loads the document but does not split it into chunks when using the .load() method. Consequently, you must define a document splitter that will split the text into chunks. Add the following code to qabot.py to define such a text splitter. In this example, you are defining a RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter with a chunk size of 1000, although other splitters or parameter values are possible.

### Define the vector store

* Now that you can load the PDF into text and split that text into chunks, you must define a way to embed and store those chunks in a vector database. The code define a function that embeds the chunks using a yet to be defined embedding model and stores the embeddings in a ChromaDB vector store: `vector_database`


### Define the embedding model

* The above vector_database() function assumes the existence of a watsonx_embedding() function that loads an instance of an embedding model. 
* This embedding model is needed to convert chunks of text into vector representations. 
* The following code defines a watsonx_embedding() function that returns an instance of WatsonxEmbeddings, a class from langchain_ibm that generates embeddings. 
* In this particular case, the embeddings are generated using IBM's Slate 125M English embeddings model. 

### Define the retriever

* Now that your vector store is defined, you must define a retriever that retrieves chunks of the document from it.
* In this particular case, you will define a vector store-based retriever that retrieves information using a simple similarity search.

### Define a question-answering chain
* Finally, it is time to define a question-answering chain! In this particular example, you will use `RetrievalQA` from `langchain`, a chain that performs natural-language question-answering over a data source using retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).

### REcap of the qabot application code
* Note that `RetrievalQA` accepts an LLM (`get_llm()`) and a retriever object (an instance generated by `retriever()`) as arguments. 
* However, the retriever is based on the vector store (`vector_database()`), which in turn needed an embeddings model (`watsonx_embedding()`) and chunks generated using a text splitter (`text_splitter()`). 

* The text splitter, in turn, needed raw text, and this text was loaded from a PDF using `PyPDFLoader`.
* This effectively defines the core functionality of your QA bot!

### Set up the Gradio interface

* Given that you have created the core functionality of the bot, the final item to define is the Gradio interface. Your Gradio interface should include:

- A file upload functionality (provided by the File class in Gradio)

- An input textbox where the question can be asked (provided by the Textbox class in Gradio)

- An output textbox where the question can be answered (provided by the Textbox class in Gradio)

### Serve the application
* `python3.11 qabot.py`

* Access the chat qa application from the public URL link provided in the output of the above command.